yeah this is this is there's a pattern
in all of this as I say in that chapter
you can you can see the intellectual
underpinnings and they come from this
idea that if it's a it's a Marxist idea
but it's just transferred to the modern
era where instead of talking about
society and class structures you talk
about in minority interest group
structures and you lump people like this
what what is what is the primary aim of
this among other things it is a
different interpretation of society
which is therefore intended to segregate
and pull apart societies as you and I
might understand them so that people's
primary affiliation is not that I'm an
Australian but or I'm British but I'm a
member of the LGBT community in the
greater Sydney area for instance you can
predict with 100 percent accuracy the
people who encourage this the people who
will grab the latest claim by an
interest group and run with it and it is
always people always people who in the
past had another way of trying to attack
our societies had a radical Marxists
view of the world for instance we know
this with the green issue where and
again like like the rights issues I
write about in this book they succeed
because they're not on to nothing you
know the green movement is on to
something with the environment and with
our planet but it has this hideous red
interior which keeps exposing itself as
desiring not not a better relationship
between ourselves in our environment but
for instance the end of capitalism yeah
and it's the same with this I expose in
each of the chapters that the people who
make it repeatedly and desperately plain
that they believe for instance that
being a woman is should be merely the
first step in a wider mission to
down capitalism now I don't think most
women on board with that and most we
would be rather surprised to be utilized
in this fashion
hmm but that is very clearly and
explicitly and I quote the the various
scholars and writers who've been pushing
us for years
this is explicitly the aim and it's why
as I say you can always predict exactly
who is going to latch on to the latest
claim when when for instance the big
bearded man with male genitalia wins the
women's weightlifting competition you
can predict with 100% accuracy who is
going to say yeah what's the problem
with that and the people who are going
to say hmm I'm not sure Clive the big
weightlifter should be winning the
women's category you can predict it and
the people who say why have you got a
problem with that biggert always the
same people who believed in the past
that our societies needed to be pulled
apart in another fashion and now they'd
like to do it in this fashion so this
what might be called I think accurately
cultural marxism people groan here we go
again yeah but in reality it is the case
isn't it that from the twenties on
Frankfurt School with in the 30s you had
Gramsci and so forth saying there's a
problem in the overthrow of capitalism
the working classes are not rising out
yes they were always a letdown they're
always a letdown
they haven't done the job for us so we
need to find a different way to achieve
the same objectives and it's to attack
the cultural underpinnings of Western
society in particular I would have
thought things like capitalism itself
demolish you face but also Christianity
of the janitors and family mm-hmm family
see they're the great loser out of a lot
of this frankly I would say these
culture wars are our children yeah you
know we've deconstructed the family and
yeah so many ways and there's further
attacks the environment which our kids
grow up yeah I've never quite understood
how though the cultural Marxists managed
to so kept
academia in the West and particularly it
seems to me in the english-speaking
countries
oh well that's yes that's easy I mean
they first of all academics can be I
think fairly characterized there's not
among the bravest people in the world
that once they get tenure they become
very comfortable in a position they are
this isn't always the case but they are
to a considerable extent as long as they
tick the right boxes and have the right
views an unusual beast in nature and
they have no predator they are able to
have a very comfortable position in
which they can should express perhaps
uncomfortable discoveries but the
comfort of recent decades has become the
comfort of exposing and following a
basically culturally Marxist view of the
world I the the literature the evidence
of this is so overwhelming now
particularly from America it has to be
said and there are in there are reasons
within that why that's the case I mean
look at the amount of money that isn't
that that the people now run up to get
an education in America it's happening
in the UK as well but if you if you
massively increase the number of people
who go to university and think they
should go to university you can't keep
up a system that rewards people for
having gone to those universities and
you create a Ponzi scheme which is what
academia has to a great extent become
where social science departments grow
and grow where the human resources
departments grow and grow I can't have
the the multiple now but it's only like
three or four times more money has now
spent the American Academy on the purely
bureaucratic elements of it than even
twenty years ago which means that young
people in countries like America are
running up massive debt in a Ponzi
scheme that cannot reward them because
there aren't rolls at the end of it all
these
people with the degrees they're given I
think by the way there's a massive
amount of resentment coming in the next
few years from the people who realized
they've been had I think this is one of
the great dangers frankly for Western
society I agree with you but but but to
go back to the origins of why academics
might be in a position I mean let me put
it another way and this is one that will
make me enormous you're unpopular with
some remaining friends in academia but
it's also the case that a great extent
this isn't whether bright people have
gone in recent years
tell me outside of specific sciences and
competencies tell me a situation where
in the last 20 years we would say this
is a really big problem let's go to the
universities and ask them for the answer
when when in recent decades we've had
massive issues have we been saying we
must ask the professors what they think
no we haven't
for all sorts of reasons but one of them
is they're not very good at giving us
the answers anymore and and by the way
them the place you'd go last for an
answer would be the Gender Studies
department of a West Coast University
you know let's go and see what they can
tell us about the sexes oh there aren't
sexes there's just a hundred genders
including two-spirit people we just
invented yesterday oh great they're
useful this is a useful Department thank
goodness kids are getting into massive
debt being lied to by these people
they've lost they've lost in large part
the competence they had and I think that
there's all sorts of reasons for that as
I say among other things a massive
expansion of that sector beyond where it
should have gone mmm well astonishing oh
and one of the reasons it matters now is
it's such a high proportion of young
people in the West go through university
yeah and then they filter out into
teaching our children into the media
into all sorts of influential places now
the boardrooms they'd be growing centers
of great wetness yes in our country yes
of course they have I mean usually said
the only small sea conservatives you
would find on Universe
were generally in the economics
departments they would also always have
Marxists in the economics department but
you would you'd often find that was
where some conservatives were because
the economics still needed conservative
thought that's not the case so much
anymore and it's certainly not the case
in the humanities and the evidence and
the what studies have been done showing
us the overwhelming preponderance of
Marxists self-identifying socialists and
others you know I've offered seven
recent years and the only place you can
really find open radical Marxists after
the Cold War closes is in the university
system although now we also have it in
our political system so that's a
development
[Music]